# Utilities for processing MARC files in various ways

For each of these utilities, see the Python source file itself for details of functionality and command line arguments.

## tagsandindicators.py

This is a simple console application which takes a MARC file as input:
```
python tagsandindicators.py nameofmarcfile.mrc
```
and outputs a count for each **combination** of tag and indicators values.

## record-fields.py

Given a MARC file, outputs any field of each record whose tag match a list of patterns.  For more help, see the Python source file.

## lccn-to-marcxml.py

Read a file of Library of Congress control numbers, one per line, downloads the
corresponding records in MARCXML format from id.loc.gov, and write the MARCXML to a file.

## field_subfield_repeatability.py

Scrapes information from the Library of Congress MARC documentation at https://www.loc.gov/marc/bibliographic/bdsummary.html (and child pages).  Writes a text file which summarizes whether each field, and each subfield of each field, is repeatable or not.  Sample output, current as of 2/25/26, can be found in field_subfield_repeatability.txt.

Just for the historical record, the robots.txt file for loc.gov allows scraping at 5 second intervals, so *this particular program* is not doing anything wrong.

## marc-filter.py

A complicated command line program, mostly generated by AI, which:
* reads in a MARC file
* evaluates each record against a boolean expression, and
* for those records that satisfy the expression
* writes either the whole record or specified tags

See the source file for more details

## marc-split.py

Reads a MARC file, splits each record, and writes one part of each record to the first output file, and the remainder to the second output file.

Each record is split at the first occurrence of a particular field, specified by its tag.